[calm music playing]
[Mary] What is this light
that calls to me?
This truth.
If you're real,
show me how to find you.
[tranquil music playing]
Daddy, eggs are on.
[indistinct chatter]
The tomato festival
started today.
You want anything special
for dinner tomorrow?
[man 1 speaking indistinctly
on radio]
[coughs]
Wish we could get some rain.
-Hi, Russell.
-Hi, Mary.
-How are you today?
-I'm good.
Guess which hand.
Ah, ooh, thank you.
That's so sweet.
You're welcome, Mary.
-Bye, Mary.
-[Mary] Bye, Russell.
[music fades]
[crickets chirping]
[crow cawing]
[mellow music playing]
There's probably, uh,
rocket fuel in that.
Yeah, they're finding rocket
fuel in the soil now
where they're growing vegetables
and wheat.
I bet you didn't know that.
Yeah, I mean for a while though
all you had to worry about were
the cows, you know,
because they'd give hormones
to the cows to make them
grow faster,
then the hormones would get in
the milk and...
Oh, don't tell me
your mom let you drink milk.
My mom's dead.
Oof.
So what kind of sandwich
is that?
-Meatloaf.
-Meatloaf? Oh, f...
Oh, my God!
You're going to be flying
to the moon on hormones
and rocket fuel and...
-Look, is that water?
-Yeah.
-Is it clean?
Yeah, can I... can I buy some?
Is that okay?
-Here you go, just take it.
-Really?
This is not like... like a
radiator or anything, is it?
I don't know if I'm going to
keel over and die
and get poisoned?
-Just leave the empty inside.
-Okay.
-Oh, man.
This is really good.
-Leave the bottle inside.
Hey, you know,
I'm only here for a couple days.
I can really use some
like good water and stuff.
I'll refill it with rocket fuel.
[laughs]
Hey, I'm Cole by the way.
[insects chirping]
[man 1 speaking indistinctly
on radio]
It's getting hot out there.
You know, I got you that fan,
so you can put it on.
Be sure to put it on.
It's pretty busy in town.
All the tourists coming in.
[tranquil music playing]
[man 1 speaking indistinctly
on radio]
[traffic noises]
[Cole] Hey, I got your bottle?
-I told you
to leave it at the diner.
-Yeah, I know.
So it was like really,
really good water.
What do you do?
-Do you filter it?
Or is it ionized or--
-No.
Also, it's like the best
I've ever had.
-Where do you get it?
-A well.
A well? [laughs]
Like a ground well,
from the ground?
Ha, I guess that makes sense.
Sediment filtration, no chloride
in it, so what's that you do?
You sort of go around town
and sell water?
Yep.
-They buy it?
-Sometimes.
It's really cool.
I need to go.
Hey, do you mind
if I come with you?
I'm only going to be in town
for a couple days.
I'm getting a new timing belt
put on my car,
so I've got some time to kill.
I'm on my way
to, uh, Grand Flats, Utah.
You ever been?
Mm-mm.
People say it's the
eighth wonder of the world.
It's the, uh, lowest
point in North America.
Everyone thinks
it's Death Valley, but it's not.
This is 270 feet below sea level
and it's a 1100 depth valley.
-Wow.
-Yeah.
I could just tag along,
kind of walk with you.
We don't have to talk.
I'll be silent.
I could really use the company.
[mellow music playing]
You know, I'm going after
Grand Flats, did I tell you?
-Where?
-Sawtooth National Forest.
-You ever been?
-Nope.
It's the, uh, ninth
tallest point in all of Idaho.
It's like 12,009 feet
above sea level.
-Does this go here?
-Yeah.
[groans]
So this is what you do?
You just travel the country,
you go into different places?
Yeah, that's the plan.
[chuckles]
What's the coolest place
you've ever been?
-Here?
-Yeah, here or outside here.
-I've never been outside of
here. -Really?
Hmm.
Yeah, I mean that's cool.
This is... It's a cool place.
Hey, thanks for letting
me come with you today.
I kind of needed it.
I was getting
a little sick of myself.
Are you staying at the motel?
Uh, Casa Ceviche.
-Where's that?
-It's my car.
It's a Honda Civic.
-You're sleeping in your car.
-Yeah, it kind of came to a stop
on the side of the road,
right outside of town.
I didn't want to leave it there
and go in a motel,
I was kind of afraid my stuff
would get stolen so...
But it's nice. It's great.
There's like a creek right there
and the sun kind of
rises above the hills.
It's really pretty.
Plus, I'm used to it. When I was
a kid, my dad used to take me
to all these kind of
cool different places.
He used to say,
"We owe it to ourselves
to see everything we can."
So why didn't he
come with you?
A road trip sounds
like a father-son thing to do.
Yeah. Yeah, it does.
Um, he passed away.
He, uh... he was a painter.
He used to paint landscapes.
He always wanted to paint
Grand Flats,
but he never did, so...
In a way, this trip
is like kind of for him.
It's cool.
-Would you want to see the well?
-Hmm?
-The well.
-Like, like your well?
Like the water well?
-Yeah, if it's interesting.
-Yeah. Yeah, that's interesting.
-It's a bit of a walk from here.
-Sure, yeah.
-All right.
-Yeah, let's do it. All right.
-[Mary] Cool.
-[Cole] There you go.
-Thanks.
-Okay, lead the way.
-[Mary] This is it.
-[Cole] Wow!
[insects chirping]
It's around to the side.
-That's it.
-Oh, man!
This is awesome.
-You can pump it if you want?
-Yeah?
-Yeah.
-All right.
-Okay, what do I do?
-So you're going
to put your hand here.
-Okay.
And then, you're going to put
your hand there on the handle
and then you're going to go up.
Okay.
-Three times.
-All right.
-And it's going to be a little
hard when you come back down.
-All right.
-I look like a man now.
-There you go.
-One, two, three.
-[handle clanking]
-There it goes. Well done.
-[laughs]
My dad used to tell the story
of the guy who drilled this.
My mom really wanted a well.
And so, he had a couple
different men from the city
come out
with their fancy equipment.
They drilled all over the place,
couldn't find anything.
So dad had this old man come out
with this handmade, um,
rickety trailer
-and he had these sticks
that tilt down.
-A dowsing rod?
And... It's... A dowsing rod.
So he had a dowsing rod
and he was walking around
and they tilted down
and this is where he drilled
and water came up on the first
shot and hasn't gone dry since.
That is really cool.
That is a really cool story.
-Take that.
I'll show you something else.
-Yeah?
-Yeah.
-Okay.
We used to have horses up there.
[mellow music playing]
-This is cool.
-She is.
[chuckles]
Hey.
-Oh. A boy or girl?
-A girl.
-Girl. Hey, what's her name?
-Pepper.
Pepper!
What's up Pepper?
Are you itchy?
[laughs]
-She's shy, huh?
-Yeah.
-Hey.
-Can I take a look?
-Uh, yeah.
Let's see.
What are we working with?
Okay.
Give me like, um, longer screws
and a screwdriver.
-It's inside so--
-Yeah, it's okay.
Go grab it real quick.
-No, it's okay.
-It's going to take me
like two seconds to fix.
Um...
Yeah. Go grab it.
[man 1 speaking indistinctly
on radio]
Daddy, daddy.
Someone's fixing the feeder.
I'll start dinner
as soon as he finishes.
No we don't have to pay him.
He's just doing it to help.
It's okay.
It's just someone I met in town.
I'll fix dinner
as soon as he finishes.
Uh, I'm sure he has to go.
Okay, okay.
-Here you go.
-Perfect.
Oh, yeah, this is great.
My dad wanted to know if you
wanted something to eat in
exchange for fixing the feeder.
Is that cool?
Yeah.
Yeah, I'd like that a lot.
Thanks.
-20 minutes.
-I'll be here.
Okay.
[mellow music playing]
[door squeaks open]
-Hey.
Fixed.
Ah...
-There you go.
-Wow! Thank you.
Welcome.
-You hungry?
-Starving.
Great. [chuckles]
[man 1 speaking indistinctly
on radio]
You don't have to eat the
pork chops if you don't want to.
No, this is great. Thanks.
-You can wash your hands
over there.
-Cool. Yeah.
Dad, um, this is Cole.
Cole, this is my dad.
How are you, sir?
It's really great to meet you.
You can sit over there.
Cool.
Cole's just here
for a couple of days.
He's, um, going to see...
What was it?
Uh, Grand Flats, Utah.
People say it's the
eighth wonder of the world.
It's the lowest point
in North America.
Everyone says
it's Death Valley but it's not.
-Did I tell you that already?
-Uh, yeah.
Yeah. [chuckles]
-Um, potatoes okay?
-Yeah, it's great.
-[Mary] Okay.
-Thanks.
So, uh, your water is like the
best I've ever had, seriously.
Mary was telling me the story
about the guy who came to drill
the well using a dowsing rod.
That's so cool.
It's a great story.
I was with Mary earlier
when she was selling the bottles
around town.
Did you tell your dad
that we found an arrowhead?
-It was a rock, heh.
-It was an arrowhead.
I'm telling you it
was an arrowhead.
Actually, you know what?
You could be
the judge of this for us.
I picked it up.
Um, you know what?
It must have fallen out.
I think we're both right though
because an arrowhead
is a rock, right?
I mean what else are you going
to make an arrowhead out of?
Something squishy,
like a worm or a dead fish?
Although, maybe you would,
maybe you would use a dead fish.
You wouldn't
have to tie it to anything.
-All you have to do is hold
it out in front of you, right?
-[chuckles]
[Cole] That's a good idea.
I don't have
a lot of good ideas.
I think that one could work.
[mellow music playing]
So he grabs this thing
with both hands, right?
And it's huge, it's enormous
and it's fighting and it's
flipping and it's kicking him.
I mean, come on,
it's so much of work.
I wouldn't do that,
but you, noodling, come on.
[chuckles]
Are you sure
you don't want some?
Mm, I'm okay. Thanks.
Dad?
[door closes]
[tranquil music playing]
[music fades]
So something happened to him?
-My dad?
-Yeah.
-He had a stroke.
-Oh, man.
Recently?
After my mom died.
When was that?
When I was six.
You've taken care of him
ever since?
He can't be on his own.
And selling water
pays the bills?
He gets disability checks
and I do my best to help.
It's really sweet.
You should go.
[crickets chirping]
I can't.
Please go.
-I... I'm sorry. I thought--
-Please go.
Okay. Yeah, yeah.
I'm sorry. I, uh...
[mellow music playing]
[tense music playing]
[music fades]
[birds chirping]
-[gasps]
-Sorry.
-Oh, God!
Oh, you scared
the heck out of me.
-I'm sorry.
-That's okay.
[clears throat]
[groans]
[laughs]
-You found me.
-It wasn't hard.
What are you doing here?
I brought you this.
I thought you could use it.
Oh, thanks.
-I'm sorry about last night.
I--
-No. I'm... I'm sorry.
-The way I reacted--
-I'm sorry.
-I shouldn't have--
-I... I just can't.
I get it.
So this is you.
Yeah, it's me.
-Casa Caviche?
-Uh, Ceviche.
It's, um, raw fish
in lime juice.
Um...
-Casa Ceviche.
-There it is.
Yeah,
she's reliable most of the time.
Um, before you'd asked me
where my favorite place was.
I was just wondering if...
before you leave, if you wanted
to see my favorite place here.
I could show you.
Unless you don't want to
and that's fine.
Oh, boy. Uh...
You sure that's a good idea?
If it's interesting.
Yeah, I know it's...
it's very interesting. I...
I would love that.
Okay.
Uh, meet me outside
the diner tomorrow at 9:30?
Sounds good.
I'll bring sandwiches.
You, uh, bring water.
-Deal.
-Okay.
[mellow music playing]
[music fades]
[tranquil music playing]
[man 1 speaking indistinctly
on radio]
Are you sure
you're okay with this?
Okay. I'll be back in time
to make dinner.
-Hey.
-Wow, you look great.
-Thanks.
-I brought water.
-I brought sandwiches.
-Great, you ready?
-Let's do it.
Let's go.
[mellow music playing]
[man 1 speaking indistinctly
on radio]
[music fades]
All right.
Wow!
You can see the sunrise
from here.
I like the way the light feels.
It takes away my fear.
Fear of what?
Messing up.
-Hey, can I ask you something?
-Mm-hmm.
What happened to your mom?
One day my dad said she had a
stomachache and it never went
away, ended up being cancer.
By the time they figured it out,
it was too late.
My dad worked really
hard to take care of everything.
The doctor said, he overdid it.
Is that what caused the stroke?
I found him in the
field one day on the ground.
He couldn't talk.
I froze.
Let me show you something.
-That is where I'm from.
-Hmm.
Danville, Virginia.
Is it nice?
It's... it's okay. It's mostly
rednecks and hillbillies.
The CIA and FBI headquarter
is up north.
Wow!
This is everywhere you've been.
So far.
[Mary] You have a pen?
Now you know you've been here.
All right, if you can where
go anywhere, where would it be?
I've seen pictures of the ocean
that were amazing.
Yes, which ocean?
Um, I don't know
which one it was.
Well,
this is pretty amazing too.
Yeah.
You ever had kale?
It's vitamins A, C, E, B6,
magnesium, pantothenic acid.
It's yours. Cheers.
-Cheers.
-After you.
-Very, mm, very green.
-Yeah.
Like a bush.
-It's not bad, right?
-Mm.
[mellow music playing]
[Mary laughing]
[music fades]
So where are you going
after the Sawtooth place?
-Sawtooth National Forest.
-Yeah.
Uh, I don't know. Get a job.
-You?
-Yeah, right?
[laughs]
Yeah, but doing what?
I don't know,
something outside maybe.
-I'd be seriously impressed.
-Thanks. [chuckles]
I have a son.
-What?
-He's two.
He lives in Pittsburgh
with my ex.
I'm not with her
anymore or anything. She...
She wanted to be
with another guy so she was.
-Oh, um, you have a son?
-Yeah. Heh.
That's him.
I've never met him before.
She was pregnant and I was going
to marry her, but she left so...
-You didn't stop her?
-I didn't try.
-Is she still with him?
-I don't know.
It kind of messed me up.
Wow!
I don't love her.
My ex. I...
I don't love her anymore.
Hmm.
We should probably get going,
huh?
Uh, yeah.
Thanks for today.
Mm-hmm. Oh.
Thanks.
See ya.
[mellow music playing]
Oh, oh, oh. Hi, Mary.
[music fades]
[man 1 speaking indistinctly
on radio]
Daddy?
Daddy? Dad?
You okay?
[Mary's father sighs]
I'm sorry I was late.
I'm going to start dinner.
You okay?
Okay. I'll be back.
[sighs]
There you go.
It was no big deal.
It was just a walk.
It was a mistake.
Sorry I overcooked the chicken.
[tranquil music playing]
[indistinct chatter]
[crickets chirping]
[music fades]
[keypad beeping]
[line ringing]
[woman over phone]
Hello.
Hello?
[bells jingle]
-[Cole] Hey.
-[Mary] Hey.
-Your car's working.
-Yep, got the belt put in,
checked into a hotel,
took a shower, feel great.
-Do you want a ride?
-Oh, I can't.
-You sure?
-I'm working.
That's okay.
Put them in the trunk.
-I can't.
-Come on, I'll help you.
-Okay.
-Yeah.
[mellow music playing]
[music fades]
[Cole] What's going on?
Everything okay?
So when are you leaving?
I was thinking about early
tomorrow morning,
getting a head start.
It takes eight or nine hours to
get to Grand Flats. I figured
I'd get there by nighttime.
Then what?
Sawtooth National Forest.
I don't know.
That's right. You have a whole
map of red stars to fill in.
[chuckles]
What's that supposed to mean?
It must be nice. That's all.
Go wherever you want.
Do whatever you want.
-Just keep on moving.
-Come with me.
-To Grand Flats?
-Yeah.
-And Sawtooth National Forest?
-Sure, why not?
-Can I bring my dad?
-If you want, bring him.
I don't care.
-[scoffs] Right.
-Or don't.
Leave him here. It seems like
he can take care of himself.
-Is that what you think?
-He seems okay to me.
Because you're the expert
on everything.
Mary, he walked out
on the field with us.
You know,
he held that giant rabbit,
but yet you feel like you need
to cut his food for him,
clean up after him.
He gets disability checks,
but you still sell water around
town to help out
the best you can.
-It doesn't make any sense.
-You don't know.
He can take care of himself
and you don't want him to.
Mary, you can't go through life
too afraid to act
on something you feel
because you're too terrified
something's going to happen
to your dad
and you're not going to be there
to take care of him.
Because things do, things happen
and you need to be there
to deal with it.
Okay, so they happen
and then you deal with it.
-Like you are with your son?
-[chuckles]
Right, of course.
Mary.
[tense music playing]
Mary, come on.
I'm sorry, okay.
Mary.
[Cole]
He can take care of himself
and you don't want him to.
[mellow music playing]
[breathing heavily]
[Mary] What is this light
that calls to me?
Warm to my skin.
To my heart.
Where do you go
when you leave me?
Or is it I that strays?
[music fades]
[knocking on door]
[man 1 speaking indistinctly
on radio]
We brought you a pie
for the 4th of July, Mary.
-Thank you, Russell.
-It's blueberry.
We baked it last night.
That's so nice.
Do you and your father
have any plans for tomorrow?
-We're just going to be here.
-I was going to fix some food,
nothing fancy.
Just thought maybe you guys
want to come join us?
-[gasps] Do you still
have a rabbit, Mary?
-We do.
-How is she?
How is your rabbit?
-She's fine.
-Does she get enough to eat?
-I think so.
Mom, can we come here tomorrow
for the 4th of July instead, so
we could play with the rabbit?
Well, we came over here
to invite Mary and her father
to our house.
But if we came here, we'd
be able to play with the rabbit.
Wouldn't we, Mary? We would be
able to play with the rabbit
if we came here?
-You guys
want to come over here?
-Yes, please, Mary.
-Russell, honey--
-It actually would be easier for
my dad, if you guys came here.
-[chuckles]
-Are you sure?
Yeah, it'd be good
to see you guys.
Would you like us to bring
some food for the rabbit, Mary?
Do you want to
bring some carrots?
Okay, Mary. I will bring
some carrots for the rabbit.
-Two o'clock?
-Okay.
See you then. Thanks.
-Bye, Mary.
-[Mary] Bye, Russell.
That was Russell and Laura.
They wanted to know if we wanted
to go to their house
for a picnic tomorrow.
I told them I thought it'd
be easier if they came here.
I'll go to the store.
I'm fine. I'm fine.
You want anything special
for tomorrow?
Fine,
I'll get whatever's on sale.
[mellow music playing]
[door closes]
[music fades]
[calm music playing]
[Mary]
Tell me what you want from me?
[birds chirping]
[Mary] Dad!
Dad!
What are you doing out here?
I'm about to fix dinner.
Why don't you come inside?
Daddy!
What is it?
Daddy, what is it?
[door closes]
Dad, open the door. Dad!
What is going on?
[both breathing heavily]
[mellow music playing]
[music fades]
[footsteps approaching]
The... the house you grew up in.
[Mary's father mumbles]
In this town...
[tranquil music playing]
Mama's house.
In this town...
we never left.
Your mother and I never got
a chance to see other places.
I would like to.
What happened to me
was not your fault.
Don't let me stop you
from seeing other places,
experiencing things...
special things.
You've taken care of me
your whole life.
I'm just fine.
[Mary crying]
[tranquil music playing]
[knocking on door]
-Hey, happy 4th of July.
-[Russell] Happy 4th of July,
Mary.
-Happy 4th...
Russell, let me get this.
-We bought carrots.
-I see.
-Carrots for the rabbit.
I see. Come in, come in.
-[chuckles] Can I go out?
-Sure, honey.
[Russell] Happy 4th of July.
-How's your dad?
-[Mary] He's good.
[Laura] I haven't seen him
in a really long time.
I'm glad you guys are here.
Me too.
[mellow music playing]
[music fades]
[door closes]
-Hey.
-I thought
you went to Grand Flats.
-I did.
You got a sec?
Yeah.
So, how was it?
It was big, empty.
When I was there,
I thought about what you said.
About what?
How things sometimes happen
and you have to be there
to deal with them.
-I'm not the one
to be giving advice.
-[chuckles softly]
I'm going to Pittsburgh
to be with my son.
-Oh!
-When I was standing
in Grand Flats,
I realized you were right.
I've been making all of my
decisions out of fear
and when I figured that out,
this calming feeling came over
me and for the first time
things sort of made sense.
Hmm.
We're not meant to live our life
in fear and that's what
I was doing.
Come on, I got you something.
[grunts]
Thanks.
We're having some food.
Why don't you come in?
Uh, I should probably go.
Okay.
[mellow music playing]
[car engine starts]
[music fades]
[mellow music playing]
[waves lapping]
[Mary] What is this light
that loves me?
Warm to my skin.
To my heart.
You are this light
that loves me.
[tranquil music playing]